MATOs
# larp-1analysis.2024
#Description of larp-1 MS and APEX sequencing data analysis
LC-MS/MS analysis 
Isolated mitochondria, mitochondria bound on beads, or protein-beads mixtures were suspended in UTU (6 M urea, 2 M thiourea, pH 8.0) and sequentially incubated with 0.5 µg/µl DTT for 30 min, 0.5 µg/µl iodoacetamide for 20 min, and 0.5 µg/µl endoproteinase Lys-C (Wako Chemicals) for 3 h at room temperature. The samples were diluted by 4-fold with 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0) and digested with Sequencing-Grade Modified Trypsin (0.5µg/µl, Promega V5117) at 37 °C overnight. The digested peptides were desalted over a C18-stage tip as described and analyzed by nanoflow Easy-nLC (Thermo Scientific) and Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (Orbitrap exploris 480, Thermo Scientific). Peptides were eluted from an in-house-made analytical C18 column (75 µm in diameter, 25 cm in length) on a linear gradient running from 4% to 78% acetonitrile over 135 min. Proteins were identified based on the information-dependent acquisition of fragmentation spectra of multiple charged peptides. Data-dependent MS/MS spectra were acquired in the linear ion trap for each full-scan spectrum acquired at 70,000 full-width half-maximum (FWHM) resolution.

APEX2-based proximity labeling of RNAs and proteins 
Animals expressing LARP-1::APEX2 and LARP-1::GFP at endogenous levels were used to carry out proximity labeling of proteins/RNAs following the method described previously. Briefly, young adult animals from 150 10-cm plates were harvested and washed with M9T buffer (M9 buffer with 0.1% Tween 20). The animals were re-suspended in 950 μl of the labeling solutions (M9T buffer with 3.3 mM Biotin-aniline for RNAs; M9T buffer with 3.3 mM Biotin-phenol for proteins) for 2 h at 25 C, and used for proximity labelling of RNAs or proteins.
    The proximity labeling of RNAs was achieved by adding 11 μl of H2O2 (100 mM) to the samples and incubating for 2 min, followed by adding 500 μl ice-cold quenching buffer (M9T containing 10 mM sodium azide, 10 mM sodium ascorbate and 5 mM Trolox). Samples were collected by centrifugation of 1,500 rp
  
